# Handson-Mnemonic

Welcome to the **Handson-Mnemonic** project! This project provides an interactive environment to work through exercises using the `mnemonic.ipynb` and `hdwallet.ipynb` Jupyter Notebooks. Follow the steps below to set up your environment and start your hands-on practice.

## Why this project?

🔐✨ **Understanding Mnemonics and HD Wallets**  
Have you ever wondered how mnemonics are generated or how one mnemonic can derive countless keys? This project allows you to explore these mechanisms step by step. By working through this project, you'll gain a clear understanding of:

- The process of mnemonic generation.
- How keys are derived in HD Wallets from a single mnemonic.

✨ Verify your learning by configuring MetaMask with the mnemonic from the exercises and matching the accounts generated by the code.

---

## Project Structure

- **english.txt**  
  A English word list file required for creating mnemonics.

- **mnemonic.ipynb**  
  The main Jupyter Notebook containing exercises and instructions on mnemonic generation.

- **hdwallet.ipynb**  
  A supplementary Jupyter Notebook dedicated to exploring HD Wallet key derivation processes.

- **pyvenv.cfg**  
  Configuration file for the Python virtual environment.

- **requirements.txt**  
  A list of Python dependencies required for the project.

---

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Install Python

Ensure you have Python installed on your system. Download it from the [official Python website](https://www.python.org/).  
During installation, make sure to check the option **"Add Python to PATH"**.

### 2. Set Up the Virtual Environment

1. Activate the virtual environment:

   ```bash
   # 1. Create Virtual Environment
   python3 -m venv ./venv

   # 2-1. On Windows
   venv\Scripts\activate

   # 2-2. On macOS/Linux
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install --upgrade pip
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### 3. Launch Jupyter Notebook

1. Start the Jupyter Notebook server:

   ```bash
   jupyter notebook
   ```

2. In the browser interface, open either the `mnemonic.ipynb` or `hdwallet.ipynb` file, depending on the topic you want to explore.

---

## License
This project includes code from the [python-mnemonic](https://github.com/trezor/python-mnemonic?tab=MIT-1-ov-file), which is licensed under the MIT License.

```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Pavol Rusnak

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy...
```

You can find the full MIT License in the [LICENSE](https://github.com/trezor/python-mnemonic/blob/master/LICENSE) file.

---

## You're All Set!

Once you've opened the desired notebook, you're ready to start the exercises. Follow the instructions in the notebook and enjoy your hands-on learning experience!

---

Happy learning! 🚀
